{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf410
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14360\viewh14020\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 FireStarter Readme\
July 6, 2007\

\f1\b0 \
FireStarter is a tool that provides a summary view of a FireWire bus, based mostly on the received Self-ID packets.  FireStarter was specifically designed for use at the 1394 Trade Association Interoperability Workshop events, where a rapid bus analysis is helpful when connecting large numbers of devices together.  But FireStarter is likely to be a useful tool for any developer working with FireWire devices.\
\
FireStarter directly accesses the 1394 Open HCI interface, using a special Kernel Extension called FWSkeletonKey.  This extension can be automatically installed by FireStarter.  Please read the security warning with care.\
\
FireStarter should work on any 1394 Open HCI interface, because FireStarter does not require special packet snooping hardware.  Almost everything displayed by FireStarter is derived from the Self-ID packets received by OHCI.  (In comparison, Apple's FireBug tool requires special hardware, but provides many additional features.)\
\
FireStarter is not for customer use.  Apple does not provide support for FireStarter, but feedback is welcome on the public FireWire mailing list.  Visit the following page to fine the mailing list address, and the latest Mac OS X FireWire SDK, including the latest version of FireStarter:\
\
<http://developer.apple.com/firewire>\
\
<http://developer.apple.com/sdk>\
\
---- Usage notes ----\
\
FireStarter requires Mac OS X version 10.3.9 or later.\
\
FireStarter must displace the normal Mac OS X FireWire services so that it can access the FireWire hardware.  All other FireWire drivers will be unloaded when FireStarter runs, and may be reloaded when FireStarter exits.  FireStarter will give a warning if it finds any FireWire devices on the bus that might have drivers.  FireStarter will refuse to operate if it would displace the driver for a FireWire disk drive, because displacing the disk driver might cause data loss.  Unmount and then unplug any FireWire disks before running FireStarter.  (unmounting alone is not sufficient)\
\
Do not let your system sleep while FireStarter is running.\
\
For frequent use of FireStarter, to prevent the automatic reload of FireWire drivers, set aside AppleFWOHCI.kext.  After doing so, reboot before running FireStarter, or the system may panic.  A safe way to disable AppleFWOHCI.kext is to enter these commands in Terminal:\
\
% sudo -s\
Password: (enter admin password)\
# cd /System/Library/Extensions\
# cd IOFireWireFamily.kext/Contents/PlugIns\
# mv AppleFWOHCI.kext AppleFWOHCI.null\
# touch /System/Library/Extensions\
\
If AppleFWOHCI has been disabled, FireStarter may not work the first time after installing the skeleton key.  In this case, restart the system, and FireStarter should then work correctly.  To restore AppleFWOHCI, just repeat all the above commands, swapping "null" for "kext".\
\
Everything else in FireStarter should be self-explanatory to developers with some knowledge of IEEE 1394.\
\
\

\f0\b \ul Release notes\

\f1\b0 \ulnone \

\f0\b FireStarter 2.3  2007-07-06
\f1\b0 \
FWSkeletonKey installer fixed to work on Mac OS X 10.5 (and earlier OS levels)\
\

\f0\b FireStarter 2.2  2006-10-4
\f1\b0 \
Universal Binary (appeared in 2.1)\
Minor tweak for compatibility with 10.4.8; should work back to 10.3.9\
\

\f0\b FireStarter 1.6   2004-08-11
\f1\b0 \
Added Ping Timer in Options menu\
Shows *IR* nodes in red\
Numbers multiple interfaces\
\

\f0\b FireStarter 1.4   2004-02-15\

\f1\b0 New menu bar control for Contender (off by default now)\
New menu bar control for Link bit (off by default now)\
New menu bar control for Announce presence to FireBug (was default on in 1.3)\
New menu bar control for Bus Reset Beeper (off by default, thank goodness...)\
... all in the Options menu\
\

\f0\b FireStarter 1.3   2004-02-07\

\f1\b0 No longer auto-clears the Contender bit.\
(Previous versions all cleared this bit on launch.)\
New menu bar control for Cycle Master (on by default now)\
New menu bar control for Raw Self-ID view\
New GUID scan optional feature\
\
\
Copyright \'a9 2002-2007 Apple, Inc.  All rights reserved.\
\
FireWire and the FireWire logo are trademarks of Apple.}