{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf937\cocoasubrtf100
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red193\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue194;\red195\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid0\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}}{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1420\fi-700\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \
About FireWireKDP
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1420\fi-700\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\fs20 \cf2 Copyright \'a9 2005-2007 by Apple Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1420\fi-700\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Introduction
\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 FireWireKDP enables live GDB debugging of a trapped kernel over a FireWire cable, just as you would over Ethernet.  It provides the following advantages over remote Ethernet kernel debugging:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2160\fi-1440\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 	\'95 Available much sooner in the kernel's startup.  \
	\'95 Available until right when the cpu is powered down at sleep and almost as soon as the cpu is powered when waking.  \
	\'95 No IP network configuration is required.\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 FireWireKDP also enables Remote Kernel Core Dumps over FireWire. This allows you to debug a static kernel at a later time without the need to be connected at the time of debug. For more info on debugging with Kernel Core Dumps, please see: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://developer.apple.com/technotes/tn2004/tn2118.html#SECDEBUG"}}{\fldrslt Technical Note TN2118: Debugging With Kernel Core Dumps}}.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1420\fi-700\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf0 \ul Download
\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
The project is available in the FireWireSDK, traditionally posted on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://developer.apple.com/sdk/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Devlopment Kits}} page.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1420\fi-700\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf0 \ul Components
\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 There are three components to the FireWireKDP project, only two of which are necessary for live GDB debugging:\
1. AppleFireWireKDP.kext is an implementation of the KDP kernel debugging protocol over FireWire. The kext lives on the target machine and is necessary for either function of the FireWireKDP project.\
2. FireWireKDPProxy is a proxy for gdb, enabling full use of gdb over FireWire. The proxy program runs on the host debugger machine.\
3. FireWireCoreDumper is a simple application to receive kernel core dumps via KDP over FireWire. The core dumper runs on the host debugger machine.  This program is not necessary for live GDB debugging since it only receives kernel core dumps.\
\

\b\fs28 \ul Compatibility
\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 FireWireKDP doesn't interfere with the loading of the normal FireWire stack - it only touches the FireWire hardware when KDP is invoked, either by a panic, NMI, trap, or similar. AppleFireWireKDP.kext is designed to work with Mac OS X 10.4 or higher.\
\
Furthermore, FireWireKDP is designed to work cooperatively with FireWireKPrintf. To use both you must use a combination of boot-args such as "debug=0x14e kdp_match_name=bogus" and have both kexts installed on the target Mac.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf0 \ul Usage
\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1420\fi-700\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 Connect two Macs via FireWire and follow the steps below.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 On the Target (machine to be debugged):\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2160\fi-1440\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 	1. Install AppleFireWireKDP.kext into /System/Library/Extensions:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2900\fi-2180\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 		Within Terminal.app run the following:\
		a.
\f1  
\fs20 \cf2 % cd <location_of_AppleFireWireKDP.kext>
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
		b.
\f1 \cf2  
\fs20 % sudo cp -r AppleFireWireKDP.kext /System/Library/Extensions
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
		c.
\f1 \cf2  
\fs20 % sudo chown -R root:wheel /System/Library/Extensions/AppleFireWireKDP.kext
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
		d.
\f1  
\fs20 \cf2 % sudo touch /System/Library/Extensions 
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2160\fi-1440\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 	2. Set kernel boot arguments to enable live debugging:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2880\fi-2160\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 		
\f1\fs20 \cf2 % sudo nvram boot-args="debug=0x146 kdp_match_name=bogus"
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2160\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 	- Setting kdp_match_name to bogus prevents Ethernet drivers from attaching to KDP. This step is different on a Developer Transition System, see below.\
	- If using FireWireKDP with FireWireKPrintf, 
\f1\fs20 \cf2 boot-args="debug=0x14e kdp_match_name=bogus"
\f0\fs24 \cf0  is recommended. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2160\fi-1440\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 	3. Reboot the target.\
	4. Break into debug mode as you would with Ethernet.  (NMI button, panic, debugger traps, etc.)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
On the debugger machine:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2160\fi-1440\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 	1. Double-click "FireWireKDPProxy".  FireWireKDPProxy is a stateless translator that shunts data between the network KDP/UDP port and the FireWire connection.  Once started it can be left running indefinitely.\
	2. Run GDB with the target OS' symbol file.\
		
\f1\fs20 \cf2 % gdb mach_kernel
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2880\fi-2160\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 		See {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://developer.apple.com/sdk/#Kernel"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Development Kits}} page for the proper Kernel Debug Kit which will contain the proper "mach_kernel" symbol file. See step 6 for more info.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2160\fi-1440\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 	3. Within GDB set the target to remote-kdp.\
		
\f1\fs20 \cf2 (gdb) target remote-kdp
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
	4. Within GDB, attach using kdp-reattach.\
		
\f1\fs20 \cf2 (gdb) kdp-reattach localhost
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
	5. The connection should be established. Use gdb as you would over Ethernet.\
	6. For more info on remote kernel debugging, please see:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2880\fi-2160\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 		{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://developer.apple.com/documentation/DeviceDrivers/Conceptual/WritingDeviceDriver/DebuggingDrivers/chapter_8_section_4.html"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Two-machine Debugging Guidelines}}\cf3 \
		{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://developer.apple.com/technotes/tn2004/tn2118.html#SECDEBUGFLAGS"}}{\fldrslt Technical Note TN2118}}\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \

\b\fs28 \ul To Capture Kernel Core Dumps
\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 Enable kernel core dumps by setting the proper bits of the boot-args' debug variable. In addition, an IP address for the receiving computer is also required, although it's meaningless over FireWire.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2160\fi-1440\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 	Set the boot-args like this:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2160\fi-1440\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f1\fs20 \cf2 	%\cf4  sudo nvram boot-args="debug=0xd46 _panicd_ip=1.2.3.4 kdp_match_name=bogus"
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Be sure the AppleFireWireKDP.kext is installed, as described above, on the target machine. Connect the machine to be debugged to a second Mac with a FireWire cable. Run "FireWireCoreDumper" from a Terminal window on the second Mac (or double-click). For more info on the debugging with Kernel Core Dumps, please see {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://developer.apple.com/technotes/tn2004/tn2118.html#SECDEBUG"}}{\fldrslt Technical Note TN2118: Debugging With Kernel Core Dumps}}.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf0 \ul Other Notes
\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Intel-based Mac Debugging:
\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 FireWireKDP (including the kext, proxy, and core dumper) works on Intel-based Macs. Please be sure to use the proper GDB binary, kernel symbols, and kgmacros.\
\
1.  Rather than simply using the "gdb" command on the debugger machine (step #2 above), use the following as a replacement:\
\pard\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2880\fi-1420\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 	\'95 If you are using a PPC machine as the debugger host, invoke gdb by the command "
\f1\fs20 /usr/libexec/gdb/gdb-i386-apple-darwin
\f0\fs24 ".\
	\'95 If you are using two Intel-based Macs, you can invoke gdb by simply using "
\f1\fs20 gdb
\f0\fs24 ".\
	\'95 If you want to use an Intel-based Mac to attach to a PowerPC Mac, use "
\f1\fs20 /usr/libexec/gdb/gdb-powerpc-apple-darwin
\f0\fs24 ".\
\pard\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2880\fi-1420\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 	Note: The version of GDB provided with Intel-based Macs recognize the "-arch" flag, so it can be invoked by "
\f1\fs20 gdb -arch <i386|ppc>
\f0\fs24 " rather that specifying the long, platform specific name.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 2. If using an Apple Developer Transition System, set the boot-args nvram variable\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2880\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \'95 Hold F8 at boot. At the prompt enter "
\f1\fs20 debug=0x146 kdp_match_name=bogus
\f0\fs24 ".\
\pard\tx0\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2880\fi-1440\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 	or for a permanent solution:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2880\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \'95 Edit /Library/Preferences/SystemConfiguration/com.apple.Boot.plist\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li3600\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 Change\
	
\f1\fs20 <key>Kernel Flags</key>\
	<string></string>
\f0\fs24 \
to\
	
\f1\fs20 <key>Kernel Flags</key>\
	<string>debug=0x146 kdp_match_name=bogus</string>
\f0\fs24 \
(Hint: since the Boot.plist file should have owner "root:admin" use: 
\f1\fs20 \cf4 sudo pico /Library/Preferences/SystemConfiguration/com.apple.Boot.plist
\f0\fs24 \cf0 )\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li3600\fi-1440\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 For more info, see the Transition page {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://developer.apple.com/documentation/Darwin/Conceptual/KEXTConcept/KEXTConceptDebugger/hello_debugger.html"}}{\fldrslt Debugging a Driver with GDB}}.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 	\
	On 64-bit Intel Macs, you must have Mac OS X 10.4.7 or later to use FireWireKDP.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Sleep/Wake Notes:
\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 AppleFireWireKDP 
\i will
\i0  work if the target has been through a sleep/wake cycle. However, if AppleFireWireKDP has run (e.g. drop into debugger and conitnue) on the target once, it might not work again if the machine is sleep/wake cycled. Therefore, if you would like to debug a sleep/wake issue with FireWireKDP, either:\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2160\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 	\'95 do not sleep between breaks to the debugger\
	or\
	\'95 disable IOFireWireFamily.kext.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Other FireWire Devices:
\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 To avoid conflicts it is best not to have other FireWire devices plugged into the host or target machines while using debug over FireWire. Having more than 2 nodes total (i.e. the two CPUs) will cause unexpected results.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Second FireWire Interface:
\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 FireWireKDP doesn't work on multiple FireWire interfaces. Please use a built-in FireWire port.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Remote Panic Pseudo Address:
\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 The AppleFireWireKDP.kext allocates a FireWire pseudo address space when it loads, which when written to causes the machine to drop to the debugger. This address is located at xxxx.0001.00000000, assuming no one has allocated a pseudo-address space before AppleFireWireKDP loads.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1420\fi20\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1420\fi-700\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Post-Panic Hot-Plugs:
\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1420\fi20\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 Some Macs do not support debugging after hot-plugging another Mac after it has panicked. To avoid this problem, keep a debugger Mac connected in anticipation of a panic.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1420\fi-700\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 DB_HLT:
\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1420\fi20\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 Using DB_HLT is unsupported, however there are some steps you can take to make this debug method more reliable on some architectures. In addition to the normal "boot-args," use "dart=0" and "fwkdp=0x20".\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf0 \ul Where can I find other FireWire Tools?
\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 Other FireWire tools, such as FireWireGDB, FireLog, FireWireKPrintf, FWPanicView, and MemView can be found in the FireWireSDK, traditionally posted on the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://developer.apple.com/sdk/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Development Kits}} page.\
\
}