{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red193\green0\blue0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18620\viewh18840\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1420\fi-700\ri-3600\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 \
About AppleFWAudio Debug Version (Leopard Only)
\b0\fs24 \

\fs20 \cf2 Copyright \'a9 2001-2008 by Apple Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1420\fi-700\ri-3600\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Introduction
\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\ri-3600\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 This is a debug version of the GM release of the AppleFWAudio software. To use this version you need to install\
the FireLog.kext. When installed the driver will log a lot of information about device enumeration and connection management. This is intended to help hardware developers bring up their hardware and see if there are any problems with their devices. This information will be helpful if you find a problem with the AppleFWAudio driver\
and need to write a bug about the issue. The debug information will help track down the problem.\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1420\fi-700\ri-3600\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b\fs28 \cf0 \ul Components
\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
There are 3 components to the AppleFWAudio project:\
1. 
\i AppleFWAudio.kext - 
\i0 Main driver version 2.4.0fc8\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\ri-3600\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 2. 
\i FWAUserLib.framework - 
\i0 user-client and library for creating and managing FireWire audio devices. New version 7.0 API's\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1420\fi-700\ri-3600\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 3. 
\i AppleMIDIFWDriver.plugin 
\i0 - midi plugin for FireWire audio devices\
\

\b\fs28 \ul Compatibility
\b0\fs24 \ulnone \
AppleFWAudio driver package is compatible with both PPC and Intel platforms\
\
\
}