{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf919
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset238 LucidaGrande;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset238 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx0\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li1120\fi-1120\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Copyright \'a9 2007 by Apple Computer, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.\
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li1120\fi-400\ri140\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs30 \cf0 \
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li1120\fi-400\ri140\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 About FWAsyncTestServer\
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li960\fi-20\ri140\ql\qnatural

\f2\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li960\fi-20\ri-980\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 FWAsyncTestServer shows how to take advantage of physical and pseudo address spaces from user space. New to Leopard are user space APIs for receiving VersaPHY packets. These are demonstrated here. Note that VersaPHY receive support is not available on all hardware platforms.\
\
Because of the support for new APIs FWAsyncTestServer requires Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard.\
\
FWAsyncTestServer is intended to be a target server for FWAsyncTestClient. More information about the client can be found in the FWAsyncTestClient project.\
\
To use the FWAsyncTestServer select an local interface from the selection window and a server window will open. Physical or Pseudo address spaces for the main transfer buffers can be selected from the popup menu at the upper left of the window. PHY packet receive is automatically allocated if it is supported. The server can be started and stopped via the start/stop toggle button at the upper right of the window. When the server is started the firewire addresses of the transfer buffers and other status will be printed to the text field which makes up the bulk of the window.\
\
}