{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf102
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14860\viewh10440\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Important Notes:\
\
FWPlugOMatic must displace the normal Mac OS X FireWire services so that it can access the FireWire hardware.  All other FireWire drivers will be unloaded when FWPlugOMatic runs, and may be reloaded when FWPlugOMatic exits.  FWPlugOMatic will give a warning if it finds any FireWire devices on the bus that might have drivers.  FWPlugOMatic will refuse to operate if it would displace the driver for a FireWire disk drive, because displacing the disk driver might cause data loss.  Unmount and then unplug any FireWire disks before running FWPlugOMatic.  (unmounting alone is not sufficient)\
\
Do not let your system sleep while FWPlugOMatic is running.\
\
For frequent use of FWPlugOMatic, to prevent the automatic reload of FireWire drivers, set aside AppleFWOHCI.kext.  After doing so, reboot before running FWPlugOMatic, or the system may panic.  A safe way to disable AppleFWOHCI.kext is to enter these commands in Terminal:\
\
% sudo -s\
Password: (enter admin password)\
# cd /System/Library/Extensions\
---> PANTHER (10.3) or later ONLY:   # cd IOFireWireFamily.kext/Contents/PlugIns\
# mv AppleFWOHCI.kext AppleFWOHCI.null\
---> PANTHER (10.3) or later ONLY:   # touch /System/Library/Extensions\
\
If AppleFWOHCI has been disabled, FWPlugOMatic may not work the first time after installing the skeleton key.  In this case, restart the system, and FWPlugOMatic should then work correctly.  To restore AppleFWOHCI, just rename it again and reboot after entering the following command (as root):\
\
# touch /System/Library/Extensions\
}