{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf919
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset238 LucidaGrande;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\froman\fcharset238 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx0\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li1120\fi-1120\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Copyright \'a9 2007 by Apple Computer, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.\
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li1120\fi-400\ri140\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs30 \cf0 \
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li1120\fi-400\ri140\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs48 \cf0 About FWAsyncTestClient\
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li960\fi-20\ri140\ql\qnatural

\f2\b0\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\tx960\tx1920\tx2880\tx3840\tx4800\tx5760\tx6720\tx7680\tx8640\tx9600\li960\fi-20\ri-980\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 FWAsyncTestClient shows how to take advantage of the asynchronous command object APIs from user space. It demonstrates the usage of asynchronous read, write, and lock transactions. New in Leopard are user space APIs for transmitting VersaPHY packets from user space. These APIs are demonstrated here. Also new in Leopard are vector APIs to send groups of asynchronous commands down to the kernel simultaneously. This can lead to improved asynchronous command performance from user space by reducing the number of user kernel transitions from two per command (one for submit and one for completion) to two per vector. The use of the vector commands are demonstrated here for read, write, and VersaPHY commands.\
\
Because of the support for new APIs FWAsyncTestClient requires Mac OS X 10.5 Leopard.\
\
The FWAsyncTestClient requires an FWAsyncTestServer to be running on a second machine on the FireWire network. More information about the server can be found in the FWAsyncTestServer project.\
\
To use the FWAsyncTestClient select a remote server from the selection window and a test window will open. Tests for the different types of command objects can be selected from the popup menu at the upper left of the test window. Packet sizes can be selected from the popup menu just to the right of the test popup menu. Note that packet sizes have no effect on PHY packets or CompareSwap commands. Tests can be started and stopped via the start/stop toggle button at the upper right of the window. Status from the tests will be printed to the text field which makes up the bulk of the window.}